PROSODY. li

been already pointed out in § 115. The other and better
view is that the lorop syllable is to be akorteaed and the

iambus scanned as a pyrrhic. Two explanations of this
shortoniug have been given.

35 (i) The first is that the early dramatists sometimes
neglected the law of position. Now in the first place this
fails to explain the shortening of vowels long-by nature,
alarge proportion of the instances; and in the second
place, even with regard to vowels long by position it is no
explanation at all, but simply restates the difficulty. These
vowels are shewn by tho metro to be short, whereas by the
law of position they should be long; it is no explanation,
but only a paraphrasa to say that in such cases the law of
position is neglected. What is wanted is an explanation
why it is so, and why tho natural length of other syllables
is neglected also.

[36 (ii) The second explanation refers this shortening to
the influenoe of the ictus matribus (ξ 39); an influenoe
which the early drama inherited from theold Saturnian
Rhythm, butwhich disappeared with the complete adoption
of the Greek method of versification (cl. ξ 79). Now the
metrical ictus, although a different thing from tho natural
ament of a word, very generally coincides with it, and in-
deed takes its place in the rhythmical recitation of verse,

, and it is therefore not unnatural to attribute to the ictas

j inverse an effect similar to that produced by the noceat
in ordinary pronunciation. And tho effect of accenting a
syllable in ordinary speech is to throw the unacoented
syllables on each side of it into the shade, as it were;
with the common result of weakening or shortening them
iflong, and often causing them to disappear if short. The
following wordsl illustrate this effect of the accent, both
backwards and forwerda :aenam discip(a)ltna‚ φωνᾷ)-

¹ Pelle, Ga and aar, Etym. p. 331. As to final syllables,
which werenevoraccented in Latin, sce ἓξ llb sqq.

 

